---
title: 'Day 15-18: It renders'
date: 2016-11-02
path: '100'
slug: day-15-18
---

Almost got rendering to work. Almost. The most immediate problem that’s left is that my async flow loses events, so it doesn’t render all of the source pages.

The less immediate but probably more ass-biting problem is my code is a mess. I lost count of how many times I forget whether my channels send or receive `ChopPage` or `ChopEvent<ChopPage>`. Or or. Brain fart of the last two days: I was long wondering where does this come from:

```
...
1609: '<'
1610: 'a'
1611: ' '
1612: 'h'
1613: 'r'
1614: 'e'
1615: 'f'
1616: '='
...
```

Turns out it comes from an `Object.assign()` where the last argument is a fucking string. And of course `Object.keys('abc')` returns `["0", "1", "2"]`, and `'abc'[0]` is a shortcut for `'abc'.charAt(0)`, so there. You really learn a lot from your mistakes.

(I guess I could also learn it from David Flanagan’s _JavaScript: The Definitive Guide_, or from Kyle Simpson’s books, or from specs, but that’s not half as fun.)

Anyway, I think I’m gonna need to abstract my data flow somehow: pure CSP is a bit too boilerplatey and I keep messing up because of having to compose event object manually—and I don’t even really use events yet, I just put `'add'` everywhere and then ignore it blissfully.

Still, before I design my abstraction, I think I’m going to do collections, just to have a better idea of what I’m abstracting. So a quicker solution to my type blindness would to make the js-csp’s `Channel` a generic type (yes, I’m hacking together some TS definitions and no, I’m not ready to publish them yet).

But first, why do those pages get lost on their way to rendering again?

(TODO: actually count them sheep and report when someone is lost. I’m going to need those counters anyway.)