---
title: 'Day 12: Transform and transmit'
date: 2016-10-15
category: '100'
slug: day-12
---

Yesterday I’ve found out that one of the reasons my simplistic test build doesn’t work as expected is I don’t actually use post titles. There’s just no code that says post titles should be a part of my URLs. So, instead of fixing my temporary hack (`FsWatcher` feeds data directly to `FsWriter`, with some rudimentary transformations applied), I thought I’d go and implement `.transform()` functionality with a dash of default transformers.
 
 Which I kinda did. At least I’ve written some code that’s supposed to do exactly that. Haven’t tested it yet, so maybe it’s about to change drastically, but just so I don’t feel over my head when I start testing it, here’s the big idea.
 
 There’s a base `Transformable` class that keeps a chain of transformers. A transformer is basically a `(data) => data` operation (so, not quite a reducer in Redux terminology). A `Transformable` basically does the following:
  
  - `.transform(transformer)` adds a transformer to the end of the chain;
  - `.lockTransformers()` stops accepting new transformers and throws with a mildly helpful message if you try another `.transform()`;
  - `.runTransformers(data)` runs all the transformers in the chain on any data you give it;
  
  Like I said, so far `Transformable` is a base class. Maybe it’s better off as a decorator. Or maybe I’ll wait before the TS team settle their minds on decorators. _Or_ maybe I haven’t settled my mind on my architecture either.
  
  Moving along. `ChoppingBoard` extends `Transformable` (my engine’s working title is `Chops` because hip is the new smart). Basically, it’s a transmitter that takes data on an input CSP channel (`new ChoppingBoard(ch)`) and emits data on an output channel.
  
  `ChoppingBoard` has one public method right now: `write(dir)`. It creates an `FsWriter`, locks the transformers and runs a generator that:
  
  - yields a piece of data from an input channel;
  - applies transformers to it;
  - puts it into an output channel.
  
  `.write()` returns an FsWriter. I’m not sure what it should actually return, or whether it matters at all. I mean, of course applying transformers shouldn’t be the last operations before writing files, so maybe an object returned by `.transform()` shouldn’t even have the `.write()` method. But on a bigger scale, do I need what `.write()` returns at all? Should I clean up after myself? Or should I just Ctrl-C and trust the GC to do its job? Ok, later. 
  
  As concise as `js-csp` is, a boilerplate start to emerge. Nonetheless, I don’t think I’m going to start abstracting it before I flesh out the more interesting features, like adding to collections and rendering pages with templates. Both of the above should take data from multiple channels. Also, ideally, collections should buffer up all the pages that pass through them until `chokidar` finishes its initial scan, so we don’t re-render the same collections (and pages) multiple times over. That optimisation, of course, is at least v0.2 material, but I do see it in my future.
 
 Anyway, let’s try and make this mutha run.