---
title: Day 6
date: 2016-09-22
path: '100'
slug: day-6
---

Ok, back to it. After much overthinking I thought I’d write some actual code. Put together the simplest prototype possible and go from there. Make it work → make it right → make it fast (who said that?).

Of course my penchant for making it right rather than make anything at all created a karma strong enough to make me spend a couple of hours wrangling with tooling. TypeScript, typings ([obsolete as of today](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/typescript/2016/09/22/announcing-typescript-2-0/#user-content-simplified-declaration-file-dts-acquisition)), transpilation targets, AVA &c. Anyway, written a simplistic AVA test in TS. It doesn’t actually have a single check in there, and that lonely `console.log()` doesn’t get called, but it transpiles and it runs without errors.

Still a few things to figure out. Like:
- Find out why `@reactivex/rxjs` works in modules called from AVA, but `rxjs-es` doesn’t. Should’t most of ES6 work in Node 6.6.0 by default? One more spot where I need to dig deeper. At least look at those packages’ source.
- Lose Typings and start using npm for TS type defs.
- Learn to use _some_ debugger for node tasks, including AVA tests. Ideally, the WebStorm debugger since I use WebStorm anyway and enjoy it, and not using its debugger is a huge waste.
- Why the puck doesn’t that `console.log()` get called?
- How the duck do I write tests for observables? Ok, I get some rudimentary notion, but.

As for those tooling pains, for me they just mean that tools [are not toys](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=12484588) [[via QuirksMode](http://www.quirksmode.org/blog/archives/2016/09/web_development.html)], and I should think twice before investing my time in them. Hopefully, TypeScript, RxJS and AVA prove well worth the investment. And even if some of them won’t stay long in my stack, at least I’ll get to know the patterns behind them. Good luck to me.