---
title: Days 3 through 5
date: 2016-09-12
category: '100'
slug: day-3-5
---

Actually worked on my project all these days, if not too productively. Firstly, I’ve streamlined some interfaces. Still don’t know whether I’m going to need this:

```ts
interface PageCollectable {
    slug: string;
    cwd: string;
    path: string;
    excerpt: string;
}
```

Because maybe I’ll just check whether all reducers have run and all the necessary data is there at runtime. Still, since I’m already using TypeScript for my first project (and make my learning curve even steeper), would be nice to have all the data structure documented in one place (and I think `.d.ts` is a great form of documentation). So maybe I’ll have a runner for all the reducers that is going to _have_ to return `PageCollectable`. _And_ learn some FP, besides TS, TDD and all those nice practices.

Secondly, found out some things actually break after updating Node, meaning I relied on global installations of TypeScript and Typings. Fixed that (I think). Not that I expect (or would want) collaborators at this point, but.

By the by, [learned why](https://basarat.gitbooks.io/typescript/content/docs/enums.html#enums-are-open-ended) enums transpile to `var EnumType; /*...*/ EnumType || EnunType = {}`. Still no idea why they use IIFEs. Which probably means I still don’t know JS. Also, learning things like this by accident is fun, but not exactly good for me. I think I should actually read TypeScript Deep Dive. And the official Handbook. And a few other books.

**P.S.** I’m not even sorry I haven’t blogged for two days because it’s neither the most engaging part for me, nor do I think it’s the most important one. It can help to make you actually code every day, but I’d prefer my reasons to code come from within. “One who relies on others is always vacillating” and so on. Besides, on the days I barely have time and energy to code, I’d rather code.